





	var gaJsHost = (("https:" == document.location.protocol) ? "https://ssl." : "http://www.");
	document.write(unescape("%3Cscript src='" + gaJsHost + "google-analytics.com/ga.js' type='text/javascript'%3E%3C/script%3E"));


	try{
var pageTracker = _gat._getTracker("UA-1191260-1");
pageTracker._trackPageview();
	} catch(err) {}









queries and e‑mail
			




Italiano
			




Help
			
















Welcome to
		

Bill Thayer's Web Site
		
where you will find:











LacusCurtius:
			

a major site on Roman antiquity, including a photosampler of Roman and Etruscan cities and monuments (with a very large site on
			
the city of Rome
			
of course); a site for teaching yourself to read Latin inscriptions; the complete Latin texts of Pliny the Elder's Natural History, Quintus Curtius' Histories of Alexander the Great, the Saturnalia of Macrobius, and Censorinus' de Die Natali; Suetonius, the Historia Augusta, Vitruvius, Claudian, Frontinus, Velleius Paterculus, Celsus, and Cato's de Re Rustica in both Latin and English; complete English translations of Plutarch's Lives, Polybius, Cassius Dio, Appian's Civil Wars, Dio Chrysostom, Dionysius of Halicarnassus, Quintilian, and Oppian; several complete Greek texts in the original Greek; Rodolfo Lanciani's book Pagan and Christian Rome, Christian Hülsen's book on the Roman Forum, Bury's 2‑vol. History of the Later Roman Empire, Bevan's House of Ptolemy, 4 books on Roman Britain, George Dennis's Cities and Cemeteries of Etruria; Platner and Ashby's Topographical Dictionary of Ancient Rome (nearly complete) and most of Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities; about 45% of Plutarch's Moralia; some maps of the Roman Empire, and lots more.

			

[
			
2/13/13:
			



3454
webpages,

753 photos,


737 drawings & engravings,

119 plans,

83 maps

]




 
But this website isn't all Roman:
		







[ 2/28/13:
3483 webpages (including 40 complete books)
			
— 20,802 pages of print,
682 photos,
			
217 maps and plans,
347 other illustrations
			]

After September 11, like many other Americans, I found myself drawn to the history of my own country; and as my small wartime contribution, I started an
			
American History
			
site, which has turned into one of the larger ones on the Web. Large sections on Louisiana and North Carolina and Freeman's biography of Robert E. Lee are joined by subsites on American Railroad History and American Catholic History, several books on West Point

(and over 2000 entries from Cullum's Register), the journal of a Mormon pioneer, a book on Washington's presidency and one on Wilson's, two books on the Spanish in America, a contemporaneous account of the Baltimore Riot of 1812, a book on the San Francisco earthquake of 1906, another on early‑19c Illinois, the log kept by the Spanish commander at the siege of Pensacola in 1781, journal articles on a variety of subjects, and many other items. More is on its way.
		









[ 9/16/11:
71 webpages (including 2 complete books)
			
— 1114 pages of print,
21 photos,
6 maps
			]

The
			
History of the Americas
			
section is of course hardly an appendage to United States history, but the other way round; still, I'm a North American, so we can expect the broader part of the site to be smaller. Right now, Bourne's Spain in America,
Galdames'
	
History of Chile, and a section on the
	
History of Brazil.
		









[ 7/25/12:
42 webpages (including 2 complete books)
			
— 653 pages of print,
3 photos,
3 maps,
4 other illustrations
			]


Sidelights on French History
			
is my orientation page gathering
			
Royal Memoirs on the French Revolution, Ernest John Knapton's 1963 biography of
			
Empress Josephine, and a few excerpts from the
			
Souvenirs of the Marquise de Créquy (1710?‑1803); but also several hundred more pages (already counted elsewhere) of material on the Norman history of Sicily, and French colonial and diplomatic ventures in the Americas.
		









[ 11/14/12:
3 webpages
			
— 24 pages of print,
1 map,
1 photo
			]


Sidelights on Dutch History
			
is a similar orientation page, with journal articles on Dutch maritime power and the 1667 invasion of England; an additional 50 webpages, 1235 pages of print, fall primarily under the history of the United States and of Brazil.
		









My
			
Gazetteer of Italy
			
— currently over 1500 mostly non-Roman pages of churches, frescoes, etc. — is my own favorite part of the site. Since 2003, I've mostly been adding to the
			
Churches of Italy
			
section, which currently
			
(6/8/12) covers
			
686 churches in 391 pages and 1592 photos; plus, quite separately, three entire books on the churches of Rome, covering about 900 of them, past and present, in great detail; and several books covering many of the churches of Umbria and of the city of L'Aquila in the Abruzzo. (The merest drop in a bucket, by the way: Italy's churches present and past must number at least 500,000.)
		









The United States, my home, I know far less well than I do Italy: for one thing, they're a much larger country. My
			
American Scrapbook
			
for now
			
— 1/21/10 — is mostly about Kentucky (in particular the little town of
			
Jenkins), with a bit of Chicago.
		







Also, a few loose ends that will eventually be better organized; in roughly chronological order:

			

Vahan Kurkjian's
			
History of Armenia.
			

Some of the work of the 12th‑century Arab geographer Sharif al‑Idrisi: for now
			
only the First, Second, and Third Climates
			
(in French).

			
Yellin and Abrahams' biography,
			
Maimonides.
			

Some chapters of King's
			
Handbook to the Cathedrals of England: currently, only Ely, Lincoln, Norwich, Oxford, and Peterborough.

			
A few collected
			
sundials.
			











[
6/30/06: 330 pages, 741 photos
			]

About 16 months' worth of my
			

diary.
			

Nothing terribly titillating, really; but it's the laid-back section of this website (read: "easy to put online"), and the raw material for much of the Gazetteer. A bit of London, France, and Kentucky, and lots of Italy: Rome, Milan, Tuscany, Umbria and the Marche, large tracts of which I explored on foot, so that the diary includes details that could be useful if you're planning a trip or a bike tour. Illustrated with photos not usually found elsewhere onsite, cross-linked to Gazetteer pages and external sites, and lavishly supplied with Google maps, it's also partly indexed by place and topic.
			
In a similar vein, eight
			
Letters from Colombia
			
written in 1993.
		







The newest pages, put onsite in the last 10 days or so:
			

(Any numbered or lettered links, while good, are reported here just to help search engines pick up all the new pages quickly.)
			








28 Feb:
			
American & Military History:
			

History of New York State
			 (an orientation page)
		







26 Feb:
			
American & Military History/
			
Sidelights on French History:
			


The Bonapartes in America
 (book by Macartney and Dorrance)
			
and
			
F
			
•
			
1
			
•
			
2
			
•
			
3
			
•
			
4
			
•
			
5
			
•
			
6
			
•
			
7
			
•
			
8
			
•
			
9
			
•
			
10
			
•
			
11
			
•
			
12
			
•
			
13
			
•
			
14
			
•
			
B
			
•
			
G
			








25 Feb:
			
History of West Point:
			

The Dedication of Battle Monument
			 (The New York Times article, May 30, 1897)
		







19 Feb:
			
USMA Association of Graduates obituaries:
			

Abner Doubleday
			










For earlier new stuff, see the complete
			
What's New
			
page.
		












Images with borders lead to more information.
			
The thicker the border, the more information.
			
(Details here.)
			





This site relies heavily on stylesheets, tables and images, and uses some very simple JavaScript but it is completely free of blinking, animation, advertising, banners and unsolicited audio or pop‑ups.
		



























Acknowledgments and Thanks
			





A page or image on this site is in the public domain ONLY
			
if its URL has a total of one *asterisk.
			
If the URL has two **asterisks,
			
the item is copyright someone else, and used by permission or fair use.
			
If the URL has none the item is © Bill Thayer.
			
See
			
my copyright page
			
for details and contact information.
		





Site updated:
28 Feb 13
