
Following the lead of Connecticut the   Council of Massachusetts, urged by   Reverend Mr. Rowlandson and Major Gookin, had, on the  3d of April,  sent Tom Nepanet,kkkk a   Christian Indian,  with  a letter  to   Philip, Sagamore Sam and other s,  express ing the  hope that terms of peace might be arrange d,  but more   specifically,  ftp of  reclaim ing  the  considerable number of captive s that had fallen into their hand s.kkkk On the 12th,   the messenger  returned with their reply.kkkk



(Then follow message s to individual s.)


While Nepanet was journey ing to bsn, Mrs. rowlandson was on her way  with   fop and his  warrior  s  from the  Connecticut River  to Wachusett. They had for d ed Miller's River,º when an Indian came up to them saying she must go to Wachusett to her master as there was a letter come from the Council to the  Sagamores about ree ing the   captive s, and  that there would be   another in fourteen days. "After many  weary days" she write s, "I saw Wachusett Hill, but many miles off . . . going along having indeed my life, but  little spirit, Philip came up and took my hand,  and said, two weeks more and you shall be mistress again. I asked him if he spoke true? Yes, and quickly you shall come to your master again. . . . And after   many weary days we came to Wachusett, and glad I was to see him."kkkk

	

A few days later,  Nepanet, accompany ied by  Peter Conway,  another friend ly Indian,  arrive d  with  a   second letter from the  Council, and a  conference  was held to which Mrs. Rowlandson was bid.

	
They bade her stand up and told her they  were the   General COurt, and asked her what she thought  her  husband would give. She told them "twenty pound s," and the  Christian Indian  s  set out  for  bsn  with  the  tentative offer from the   Indian  s  to   rzm her  for that sum, and   express ing themselves sorry  for  the  wrong done and   that   when  the  quarrel began   with  the  pmh men they did not think  there  would be so much trouble.

	
on the 2d of May,   in the  early Sunday morning, they returned to Wachusett Hill   accompany ied by John Hoar.kkkk  The Indian s   treated  him   with  rude horseplay,   fir ing   over and under his horse, and pushed him about.

	
After  a  conference, at which Mrs. Rowlandson's  release was agree  d upon,  Hoar  asked  the  sagamores to dinner, but "when we went to get it  ready we found they had stolen the  greater part of the  provision  s mrhoar u218 had brought with him, and  we may see  the  wonderful Providence of God in that one passage in that when there was such a  number of them  together and all so  gdy for  a little good food . . .  that they did not knock us on the head  and tak what we had, but instead  of   do ing  us  any mis chief   they seemed to be  ashamed of the fact and  said it was  the  bad Indian s   that did it."kkkk

	
	Negotiation  s for  the  release of other captive s, and for  peace, still continued after her  release, and on the 5th of May   we find  the  Council again   writing to the   sachems, Philip, John,  Sam, etc., "Received your letter  by John Hoar   sent up  with  John and  Peter," and   they express ed their disappoint  m0   that no answer   was  returned   as to the  terms upon which they  would release all the  prisoner s. "You  dr  not  to be hin ed  by our men in your plant ing,   promise ng  not to do damage to our town s. This is a   great matter  and cannot be  ended by the  letter  s  without speak ing  with  one another." "If you  will send us  home all  the   English  prisoner  s it   will be a   true testimony of  a  pure heart   in you  for  peace;" and they promise  d  that  if  the  councilors  and   sachems   would come to bsn, Cko or  Sudbury,   the  Council would   speak to them about their  desire s  and they should safely come and go.kkkkk Further correspondence  kkkkk was carried on. John Hoar,   Seth Perry,  Reverend Mrrowlandson, Peter Gardiner,kkkkk u219  Jonathan Prescott kkkkk and  other s   acting as intermediate ies.

	
There is no doubt   but that, while the  main object  was to secure  the  release   of   the  captive s,  the authority ies  would gll at this time, have made peace and held in abeyance   the  active prosecute iin of the war.  The   first object   was finally accomplish ed and almost  all  the captive  s  returned to their homes.kkkk The  negotiation  s  as to peace efud utterly.   What reason  held  the  Indian s   aloof  it is  difficult to judge,   for   the  suffering among them from  the lack  of food was now  great, and their  ammunition scarce.

	
It may be  that  they  prolonged  the  negotiation s  for  the  sole purpose  of   gain ing time,  or from  the  belief  that the English  would pay but  scant regard  to the  terms of any treaty, or  that  they  relied on their own   supplies   from  the  crops plant  ed in the  valley  and  the opening  of the   fish ing  season, to achieve success.   Possible 00y  Philip  was obi and  the  narg  s  eager to   rge  the  death  of  Canonchet; all is  conjecture aal.

	
It was  common ly  believe  d  at the time,  that these negotiation s  and  the  release  of the  captive s,  occasion ed   strained relation  s   between  Philip and  the  narg s,  on the one hand, and   the  nip   tribe s  on the other.

	
Sagamore Sam and One-Eyed  John   declare d   later  that they  were incline  d  toward  peace, and  the  former that he   u220  was  the  chief advocate   of the release  of the   English captive s, which Philip oppose d.

	
Sam may have  believe  d it would mak  for  peace and more lenient terms   for  his own people  if  the  worst came to pass, while Philip, with  better judgment, declare  d  that  they would mak better  terms  for  their own people  by  retain ing the  English captive  s  as  hostage s.

	
Sagamore Sam's  family, like  Philip's , was capture  d  and sold into slavery and  Sagamore Sam was hanged, his release of the captive s  serve ng him not a  whit.

	
The negotiation  s  into which   both Connecticut and Massachusetts  had entered,  led to  a policy  of inaction,  and,   save   for  movement  s of convoy s  and  relief s, and the  sending out of  a  force  under Henchman, Brattle and Prentice, toward Mendon and Seekonk,  the  month  ok4  and  the  early weeks  of May   were un mark  ed by  any  active  organization of  force   s or   agrv movement s  on  a large  scale, an inactivity,  however, which,  when considered  in relation to the  Sudbury  disaster   is not  without suspicion   that the  authority ies,  in view of  the  constant amk   and lack of  success, were  at their  wits' end.   Yet mag  the Indian s, also,  many were  waver ing,  and some who had been  active ly hostile   were already  in   communication  with   the  English and professing   friendship.  "Tell James  the  Printer and other s, to bring in the  head  s  of Indian  s  as a  proof of this fde,"  wrote the  Council to Major Gookin.kkkk

	
While, throughout  ne0,   the  English held their hand  s   during these negotiation s,  the Indian  s  continued their attack  s and  depredations without  cessation.

	


